Sun Life Community Church came into being as the result of a compelling vision for a different kind of church.
Interested in what we call the Sun Life, experiencing and sharing the life of God's Son?
Perhaps your heart is burdened these days.
We invite you to allow the Word of God through the words of this message to bring rest to your soul and joy to your heart.
Got your Bibles with you?
Pete, did you bring yours?
It is great to have Pete and Joyce back with us here this morning.
They have fought through some periods of illness here, and Pete said this morning, I'll be right here in this chair, long as I can.
And so I'll be preaching right in that direction, because I've not seen your face in here for a while, Pete.
But he sees mine every Sunday, right?
Boy, they are faithful, live streamers at home,
And so our views will be down one this week, but my views up one.
And so I'm happy about that.
Let's bow in prayer, shall we?
Heavenly Father, we're about to open this Word of God.
Forgive us when we ever take it for granted and think, well, everybody's got a Bible.
Father in the world today, not everybody has a Bible.
In this country, there are many, many Americans these days
who do not own a Bible, have no intention of buying one.
So Father, we are privileged people to have them in our hands and to realize that they contain the truth of God.
They contain directions for our lives.
So help us Father, by your Holy Spirit to just understand your word today.
As we said in our bullet, then you are a masterful communicator.
Father, just communicate to us through Your Word this morning for we ask it in Jesus' name.
Amen.
So we're in Acts chapter what?
I talked to somebody last week.
He said, are we ever going to get on Acts chapter 16?
He says, I always read the chapter we're in.
He says, and I've been reading Acts 16 again and again and again and again.
Well, today's our last day in Acts chapter 16.
But if I left it before we went through what we're going through today,
the Holy Spirit would say, how dare you?
How dare you?
You spent this much time in Acts 16 and then you didn't actually get the punch out of it, so that's what we're doing today.
We started last week looking at the passage, Acts 16, verse 16 through 40, a great, big, long extended story that we called the Philippian episode.
And we said that so long and it contains so much stuff and there's two different ways of looking at it that we're going to have to have two parts to this message.
First part was last week.
It was called as the world turns.
There's an incredible picture of how ungodly people work and think and function, how the world does its business.
And the way the world does its business should be the exact opposite of how Christians do their business.
And so this is what we're going to be comparing the other view today.
But last week, we really looked at the way the world turns.
As the world turns, we called it.
So just to catch us up, let me give a brief recap.
Not going to run it all through the screen.
I'm just going to run it through your mind.
This afternoon, we'll
mail out this message and you can have these points yourself in front of you, but just a brief recap so we know what we're dealing with.
Some of you maybe weren't here last week, but here we go.
The story in this passage, Acts chapter 16, verse 16, really, just through verse 34 today, we see and we saw last week Paul and Silas
began a ministry in Philippi.
Before they got there, there had been no church, no mention of Jesus, no salvation, no evangelism, but they got to Philippi, they began a ministry.
And as they began, a demon possessed slave girl
came walking behind them regularly announcing that they were servants of God, announcing their divine mission.
She even said, they have been sent by the Most High God to show you the way of salvation.
Incredible statement.
Then after many days, Luke tells us, Paul casts the evil spirit out of her.
Now the slave girl's owners, they were outraged.
They were using that evil spirit in that girl to cause her to be a fortune teller and they were selling her ability to anybody who would pay money for it.
Paul cast that demon out of them and their chance of making money left and they were outraged.
They dragged Paul and Silas before the city magistrates and there they made some outlandish accusations and in the heat of the moment
The magistrates of the town ordered Saul and Paul and Silas to be stripped and beaten with rods.
Paul and Silas were thrown into prison.
At midnight, Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God.
It said all the other prisoners in there were listening to them.
A violent earthquake shook the prison and loosed all the prisoners' bonds.
The jailer now saw that the prison doors were open.
He assumed that all the prisoners had escaped.
He drew his sword and was planning to take his own life knowing that the Roman officials would take his life for dereliction of duty.
So he's prepared to take his own life knowing this great tragedy has happened.
Paul sees that and calls out and says, do not harm yourself.
We're all here.
Nobody had escaped.
The jailer at that point fell to his knees and cried out, sirs, what must I do to be saved?
Paul responded, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved.
You and your whole household.
Paul shared the full gospel with him and with all his household.
And we're told that he and all the members of his family were baptized in the name of Jesus Christ that very night.
The jailer washed their wounds.
He fed them a meal.
He was filled with joy, Luke says, because they had come to believe in God.
Any of you believe in God?
Any of you believe in Jesus Christ as your personal Savior?
When you first believed were you filled with joy?
Yes, yes.
Well, so was he.
It's the way it goes in Christ's world.
It says, because he had come to believe in God, he and his whole household.
Now, last week, we examined this
Philippian episode.
And as we did, we focused our attention upon the way the sinful world works.
We need to know there's a way that the sinful world goes about getting from point A to point B.
We need to recognize it.
We need to know when it's happening.
We also need to know when we are caught up in it and we start working our life in exactly the same way.
We got to say, hey, that's not right.
That's the way the world does it.
So we looked at last week.
And I shared with you two key world-identifying observations.
It's like when you see these three things happen, in any of these three, you're dealing with the world, the fallen world, the sinful world, the against God world.
The first one, we said, I identified a most common world-identifying reality.
Just a basic reality that the world adopts as true, and whenever you see this being adopted, you know your got knees, your knee deep in the world's thinking, and that reality is this.
It's all about money.
It's all about money, it always is.
The bottom line is the bottom line.
Well, when we're seeing that, hearing that from people, just be sure you're not thinking it yourself,
that the way you make every decision is, will it be profitable to me?
When you see that, you can identify this is an aspect of the world I'm dealing with here.
Secondly, we identified a most common world identifying strategy.
How does the world go about dealing with its enemies, dealing particularly with the followers of Jesus Christ?
And we just saw a couple of things last week.
Number one, they isolate and they castigate.
Isolate you say, they are not like us.
They're different.
And then they say harsh mean things about these folks, these believers.
Secondly, they extrapolate.
That means they take whatever it is you're doing and build a whole case out of it that goes way beyond what you were either doing or thinking.
And as a result, they exaggerate.
what a believer is about and what a believer is doing and what a threat they are.
And when you hear that begin to happen, you're dealing with people whose minds are caught up in worldly thinking and following the worldly practice.
And then lastly, we identified a common world identifying sequence.
Like I said, how do they get from point A to point B?
In this story, we really saw that sequence play out.
Number one, situation happens and they jump the gun.
Jump the conclusions, we might say.
They ride a tide of emotion, not reason, but emotion.
And in the process, they violate their own laws in the heat of that emotion.
They get so worked up, so carried away, so enthused, they even forget that, hey, we're not allowed to do that.
There's a stop sign there.
Whoa, buzzed right through it 40 miles an hour.
Why?
Because that guy up there made a face at me, and I'm not going to let him get away with it.
And the heat of emotion, forget the stop sign, forget any of the normal things.
Just ride the tide of that emotion right into whatever comes.
And we said, and whatever comes, and whatever came in this story, sometimes that gets you to a place where you embarrass yourself regularly.
You just act like an idiot.
Later on, you're embarrassed at yourself.
Why did I do that?
Well, because I just got completely out of control.
And then once you recognize that, once these in the world recognize that, especially if they're people in control of anything, then as much as possible, they try to just sweep it under the rug.
That never happened.
Never happened.
That wasn't really me doing that.
I'm not like that.
See, that's the word.
There's a sequence.
And we saw that play out in Acts 16 with all the unbelievers doing that stuff.
So those three observations popped out, really, right out of the text.
They're pretty hard to miss.
They define the way the world works.
Now, as I intimated a moment ago, sad to say, frequently or too often than we would like to admit, we ourselves can get caught up
in the works of the world.
We make the world's bottom line our bottom line.
We make the world's strategy our strategy especially when we're dealing with what we perceive as our opponents our enemies.
And we can fall into that same sequence of emotion fueled behavior that can lead us to do things that in our right mind we would never do.
And we can do that because as we admitted to God a moment ago in our prayer, we're not perfect.
And we can fall into the practices of this world if we are not careful.
And we might think that's the way everybody functions.
Well, now we take another look at this story and we find some agents of God going through that same situation, Paul and Silas.
And the question is, how did they respond?
What's a godly response when the world is doing what the world does when difficulties come that we haven't really had a hand in ourselves?
How do Christians respond?
Do we fight fire with fire?
Well, that's a world way, but sometimes Christians use that.
How do Christians, how does the Church of Jesus Christ respond when all around them, the world is working the way the world works?
Well, here's what I want us to see today.
See, so we're going to go back through the story and look at it from Paul and Silas' point of view.
A further examination of this Philippian episode, and so we just call it, and we're going to focus today, not upon the way the world works, but rather upon the way Christ Church responds to the way the world works.
So here we go.
Paul and Silas will be our main example.
Let's just follow them through and see how they handled things.
And I hope as we go through this, some of you, let's see, should I pick out somebody?
Some of you would say, you know, that's exactly what I would have done.
That's exactly the way I handle stuff.
That's the first thing that popped into my mind when I was in a situation like that.
Boy, I hope so.
Because this happened 2,000 years ago and Christians have had 2,000 years to kind of refine
their understanding of how the Church of Jesus Christ is to function in this fallen broken world.
So as I go through this, maybe a whole bunch of you say, of course, of course, that's the way we do it.
Paul and Silas might have been the first ones, but we got that nailed down now.
So get prepared to pat yourself on the back.
or to ask the person next to you, would you just pat me on the back because you might as well call me Saul or call me Silas because this is all familiar stuff.
But let's go through it anyway, just in case there might be somebody here that needs some insight.
Let's see how they handled things.
And I'm sure some of their responses might catch any one of us completely by surprise.
And all of them require great measures of God's grace
for us to live out in the world today or any day.
So as you have on your notes now, we're catching up to where you've got something to fill in.
There are five specific Christ honoring responses that I see in this story, this passage.
Five ways that Paul and Silas responded to the workings of the world that they were caught up in.
So here we go.
Number one,
In response to Numa's nudge, they obeyed.
How many of you have ever felt a nudge from the Holy Spirit from Numa Himself?
We've been talking about that a lot the last six or seven years here.
In response to Numa's nudge, they obeyed.
Here's the verse that I believe shows that and then we'll explain it.
Verse 18 of chapter 16, Luke says, finally,
See, this servant girl was following them day after day after day after day, and she was announcing, I mean, here they are.
These are workers of God.
They will show you the way to salvation.
Who knows how many people started to follow Paul and Silas down to their meeting place as a result.
She might as well have had a megaphone in her hand announcing who they were.
Luke says she did this for many days.
Finally, Paul became so
troubled that he said to the Spirit that was in her, in the name of Jesus Christ, I command you to come out of her."
And the Bible says the Spirit left.
And she was left devoid of this ability that she seemingly had had to tell people's future and let her owners charge money to have a seance almost with her.
That Spirit left
Obviously, there was such a change in her that her owners immediately know, man, she's no good for us anymore.
She's no, look at the smile on her face.
Nobody's got to believe a girl like that.
Now, let me tell you this morning.
I believe that this was not the result of Paul just saying, I can't take this anymore.
That girl's bugging me.
It's annoying.
See, after all, Luke tells us that this spirit possessed slave girl had been following them and trumpeting their cause for many days.
If you were Paul, wouldn't that have bothered you day one?
Day one?
Her notoriety in Philippi certainly drew much attention to them and perhaps caused many of the city's citizens
to come and just check things out.
Well, let's listen to this guy.
Let's see what he's saying.
So why?
Why on this day did Paul take this dramatic step, a step that brought severe consequences with it?
Why on this day was Paul so troubled that he took action?
Luke tells us.
It was because he was troubled, deeply troubled.
Now let me tell you something.
I might have hinted at this a week or so ago.
The Greek word here that Luke uses for Paul was whatever, troubled.
It's only used twice in the entire New Testament, both times by Luke, once in chapter four and one right here.
So when the English translators are trying to translate
our scripture from Greek into English, they got a word here, a Greek word that's only used twice in the whole New Testament, only used by Luke and only used in the book of Acts.
And Paul was something that caused this dramatic action on his part.
And this something he was is explained by a Greek word that is used very, very little.
And so the context doesn't really help us with what the word means because Paul was something and he commanded the spirit to come out of her.
He was so something that he just had to deal with it.
Even though days and days and days and days went by and he didn't deal with it at all.
He wasn't so something on those days.
So what is going on here?
See the NIV, the new international version, translators, they've used several words.
Every now and then the NIV brings out a new version.
Linda and I hate that.
The NIV first came out when we were in, right at the end of Wheaton College in starting seminary, some of our seminary professors were actually shared in the translation of it, and it was an awesome up-to-date
accurate translation of the scripture, and that was over 50 years ago.
And the NIV is forever their translation committee upgrading a word here, changing a word there.
In fact, two weeks ago, the scripture we put right on our screen had this word.
And it's one that I would find the most objectionable
of all the possibilities, but we put it on the screen because that's what was in the current NIV text.
And it says, finally, Paul got so annoyed.
Annoyed.
Now, there's something godly.
How many of you have ever been so godly you've gotten annoyed?
I think of why that word.
Why that word?
The earlier version said he was troubled.
He was troubled.
Now, that's a word that doesn't really tell us much at all.
Annoyed kind of means, man, I tell you, she's driving me nuts.
If you don't stop her, I'm going to hit her with a clump.
That sounds kind of fleshly, doesn't it?
Can't you just see the Apostle Paul starting to work for God in a pagan place?
Lydia comes to Christ.
They have great ministry, success.
They're living in Lydia's beautiful home, and they're continuing their ministry, and all of a sudden,
Paul is overcome by human flesh and just gets ticked off.
Annoyed.
I can't believe how any translator of the New Testament would choose that English word as being something that would help us understand the story.
What if?
Let's all be translators here.
What if I choose the word stirred?
as in Paul was greatly stirred by the Holy Spirit, stirred, moved by the Holy Spirit.
What if that day was the day that Numa himself said to Paul in effect, Paul, would you free that poor girl from her bondage?
She has done about as much good for you as she possibly can.
Would you free her now?
Deliver her.
And the Spirit made that impression so strong on Paul that he couldn't deny it.
And he turns to her and he frees her.
And don't you think she just trotted on right after them?
Now completely free from that evil Spirit.
Now probably wanting to become one of them.
You see, we here at Sun Life Community Church believe strongly
in the moment by moment leading of the Holy Spirit in our lives.
Certainly we believe that all transformational moments come as a result of His actions in our lives.
For every believer, the Holy Spirit
is their companion, their guide, their influencer.
He is God with them.
There is nothing that has ever happened in any of our lives since the moment of our salvation, which was, of course, transformational.
Nothing transformational that doesn't have the Holy Spirit's fingerprints all over it.
That's what he does.
Something dramatic comes.
Something happens.
This is a Holy Spirit-led thing.
The apostle Paul was so troubled, distressed,
It wasn't like any other day.
And now today at this point, without any trouble at all, I can hear the Holy Spirit saying to her, Paul, today is the day.
Release that poor girl from her bondage and even demonstrate the power of Jesus Christ over the devil himself.
Do it.
And Paul did.
Now I have no doubt that Paul was pretty sure that obeying the Spirit's voice would bring some pretty severe consequences.
Have you ever felt that way yourself?
You know, there's something God wants you to do and you think inside your own little head, oh, if I do that, if I do that, he will, she will, they will.
I won't be a
If I do that, and yet you know it's something God wants you to do.
Maybe you've read a scripture that just knocks you between the eyes.
Maybe you hear the voice of the Spirit so distinctly that it's almost like he's moving you in the direction of doing this thing.
We gotta believe Paul knew there would be consequences to this.
But that was the whole point, wasn't it?
You see, the members of Christ's church,
Taking Paul and Paul and Silas as their examples, the members of Christchurch obey once they are nudged by Numa in some particular way.
It's a fundamental response.
That response distinguishes them from the way the world works.
The world is never directed by the Spirit of God.
The world is, there's no contact, there's no connection.
between a lost soul and the spirit of God.
Until that lost soul is made new by the spirit of God, that relationship can begin.
Only a believer receives these kinds of impressions.
We call them nudges from the Holy Spirit.
And when we feel one, it's essential that we obey it.
It's a fundamental response.
You see, believers obey because they believe that they are hearing the voice of God.
They believe that they are hearing the Spirit's direction.
And they trust, even as they're obeying, which is going to maybe walk them into some unknown territory, they obey and they trust that the Spirit will lead in some productive and God-honoring way.
That's what He does.
He leads us into and through all kinds of things, but we obey Him because we believe it's His voice and we trust Him when we yield ourselves to follow.
Some years later, the Apostle Paul would write these words in his epistle to the Galatian church.
He says, and he could be thinking back on this moment or on many moments in his life, he said, since we live by the Spirit,
Let us keep in step with the Spirit.
We're watching Paul keep in step with the Spirit that day, stirred to do something that no doubt is going to bring trouble and may be going to upset some of the good stuff they have going already, but it's the Spirit's voice.
And the Spirit knows what He's doing.
And my job is to
keep in step with Him.
And so that's the first Christ honoring response we see here.
In response to Numa's nudge, they obeyed.
Here's the second one moving along.
In response to the pain of persecution, they endured.
We wish this wasn't even illustrated in the Bible.
Christian shouldn't ever experience the pain of persecution, should we?
I mean, for heaven's sakes.
We've been born again.
We've been forgiven of our sins.
We are God's people.
God protects us like He protected Job of all.
Does He not?
Does He not keep all harm from our dwelling?
Does He not keep all sickness out of our body?
You don't talk to me about the pain of persecution.
We're victorious Christians.
Well,
Here's what it says, verse 22 to 24.
The magistrates, after Paul and Silas had been drug in front of them, and the crowd is screaming at them, the magistrates ordered them to be stripped and beaten.
After they had been severely flogged, they were thrown into prison.
The jailer put them in an inner cell, like so, man, there's no way you're getting out of here.
Put them in an inner cell, and on top of it, he fashioned their feet in stocks.
Now that was pretty severe.
Paul knew there would be some kind of disruption here.
Anytime we take a step like this, when we change the course of events, we know there's going to be repercussions.
But I doubt that Paul saw all of this coming.
You see, after all, he and Silas were Roman citizens.
This was a major city under Roman jurisdiction.
Of course, the owners of that slave girl would create a fuss and might well drag them into court, but Roman justice would prevail once they explained everything to the duly appointed magistrates.
Oh, it would mess up their ministry for a while, but come on, we know how Rome works, we're citizens, we have rights, all of this, and
But things didn't work out that way at all.
They didn't just get thrown into court and have to defend themselves in some way.
The owners of the slave girl actually went berserk.
They stirred up the townspeople, and by the time the magistrates even got involved, a full-blown riot had broken out.
What are you going to do?
If you're a magistrate, trying to keep Roman
civil society as well as Roman law.
So at that point, nobody asked Paul and Silas about their citizenship status.
The magistrate skirted the law and simply sought to appease the crowd.
Things got completely out of hand as sometimes happens when the world system is running the show.
And so, by following the spirit's lead,
Paul and Silas wound up bruised and buddy, bloody with their hands and chains in their feet in a set of wooden stalks.
Now truth be told, that has happened more than once over the years when members of Christ church choose to obey some nudge from Numa.
When you think about it,
That's exactly what happened to Jesus himself.
He followed the Spirit through this world and suffered like no man has ever suffered.
The events of that day and night help fulfill one of the deep longings of Paul's heart.
You might say this was a wonderful thing that happened to him.
Say, are you kidding me?
Well, let me share this with you.
Paul revealed that longing in his heart in the letter.
He would one day write to the church in this very city of Philippi, his letter to the Philippians.
He wrote Philippians chapter three, verse 10, I want to know Christ and the fellowship of sharing in his sufferings.
Guess what, Paul?
That longing's been fulfilled.
Man, are you suffering?
You were beaten within an inch of your life.
You're thrown in jail without even being heard from.
And who knows what's coming tomorrow?
You see, those who read those words in the church in Philippi when Paul sent that letter, some of them no doubt were present during those initial days of ministry.
And they said, boy, when I read that from Paul, I think the night of the earthquake.
I think of that whole episode where he and Silas were treated so badly, certainly Paul.
Now he's telling us that's long been a desire of his heart.
To just share in the sufferings of Christ is like, boy, he shared that night.
So did Silas.
And hopefully, let me just say, perhaps that liberated slave girl was one who nodded her head in agreement in the fellowship of that church family when they read that letter.
I sense that that was the way Paul viewed the situation.
He and Silas were sharing in the sufferings of Christ and what could be more Christ honoring than that.
Now, the fact that that's really how they were looking at it as they sat there that night in prison, bloodied and battered is seen by this next response.
You see, the response, a Christ-honoring response is this.
In moments, in response to moments of uncertainty, they, that is, Paul and Silas and all true believers since, praised.
praise.
Acts chapter 16 verse 25, about midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God and the other prisoners were listening to them.
What an interesting thing to tell us.
See certainly nothing that Paul would have normally expected had happened.
He and Silas had been hit by a runaway train of human emotions and injustices.
They had no way of knowing what would come next.
Uncertain indeed was their future.
And in response, we say to moments of uncertainty, what's happening now?
What's going to tomorrow bring?
They praise God.
In the midst of those circumstances, they took refuge, I would say, in their uncertain time in the certainties of God.
they knew.
They knew, like we know ourselves, that their God was brilliantly wise, profoundly wise, breathtakingly strategic, brilliantly tactical, tirelessly vigilant, preeminently trustworthy and unceasingly creative and unfailingly faithful.
That's only a handful of the identities of God that we've put together.
They knew God to be that way.
They were singing hymns of truth to God, made me think this morning.
We have 30 of those traits.
We ought to choose a song for each one.
Have 30 songs when in times of uncertainty and stress, when we want to remind ourselves of the goodness and greatness, the attributes of our Heavenly Father, here's a hymn we can sing, a song we can sing that just identifies.
I mean, that'd take us all night.
So we wouldn't have to worry about other stuff.
were just singing praise to God in the midst of uncertain times.
I have a feeling this Philippian episode was one of the events of Paul's life that he must have had in mind when he wrote these words in his first letter to the Thessalonians, 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verses 16 to 18, he says, be joyful always, pray continually, give thanks in all circumstances
For this is God's will for you in Christ Jesus.
Don't complain and gripe.
Whatever you're in, even the thing that's happened to you or the thing you're not sure is going to happen to you next.
Be joyful always.
God is God and God is good.
Pray continually, never break fellowship with your almighty heavenly Father.
Give thanks in all circumstances.
Oh God, I can't see what all is going on, but boy, I thank you for your faithfulness to me.
For this is God's will for you.
I have a feeling that maybe some of them who had seen these things in Philippi were there when this
when that letter to the Philippians came when it was read.
Maybe some of those fellow prisoners were there.
Those guys didn't run away.
Does that not make you curious?
They had been listening to Paul and Silas all night long.
How many of them had actually embraced what Paul and Silas were singing about?
How many of them saw the earthquake realized a miracle was taking place, and they themselves were caught up in all that, and maybe a few of them, when Paul's letter to the Philippians came, they were actually in that church themselves, hearing Paul talk about the fellowship of his sufferings with Christ.
We could see all these people having, they're part of the story, and maybe they stayed part of the story,
for the rest of their lives.
So praising God, when those who are part of the world's system would be cursing God, is truly a God honoring response.
Well, here's just fourth one, we'll move right along here.
In response to a ministry opportunity, they engaged themselves.
They jumped right in.
The Philippian jailer, it says he was about to kill himself.
Paul says, don't harm yourself.
The jailor falls down before them and says, what must I do to be saved?
And they tell him to believe in the Lord Jesus.
I've got to confess that this week my take as it were on this encounter has changed.
How many of you would agree with what I thought for a good part of my life that Paul and Silas here just took advantage of a situation and twisted around to make it a gospel presentation?
How many of you think that jailer when he says, what must I do to be saved?
He's actually asking, what do I do to keep alive?
See, he was going to kill himself because he thought all his prisoners had escaped.
Do you think he was still going to kill himself after Paul says, nobody's escaped?
They're all here.
It's a miracle.
You're off the hook.
You're still a good jailer.
Just get new doors and lock them up and you'll be in trouble with nobody.
It just went through my mind.
It would be stupid of him after he knew nobody escaped to still be thinking his life was threatened.
What is the possibility he was asking the real question?
This slave girl had been saying, these men will show you the way to be saved, the way of salvation.
He's seeing miracles right in front of him.
And he's overwhelmed with truth like he's never encountered before, the power of God like he's never encountered before.
He drops on his knees in front of these men who've been sent by the Most High God.
And he says, how about me?
How can I be part of that?
How can I be saved?
That he actually was seeking spiritual salvation, not physical salvation at all.
It was a genuine ministry.
opportunity.
And Paul and Barnabas jumped right into it, and they just said, here it is, man, believe in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved, spiritually saved, made new in Christ.
And then it says, Paul went to the house and they talk much more, the words of the Lord to them, until they came to a place where they
They confessed Christ they were baptized the entire household was and became just a marvelous thing.
A whole house of pagan people saved and baptized.
Paul was always ready to give the answer that is Jesus Christ.
Later on Paul would write to the Romans and in chapter 1 verse 16 he would say, I am not ashamed.
never been ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
It is the power of God and to salvation to all who will believe."
And boy, it sure was that night.
Last thing.
Number five, a God-honoring response in response to their spiritual harvest, they rejoiced.
Great joy.
Fill that whole household.
Paul and Silas were part of it.
A meal was prepared, joy was expressed, and it says right there, the jailer was filled with joy for he had come to believe in God.
See, it doesn't say he was filled with joy because all his prisoners were still there.
He was filled with joy because his superiors weren't going to be after him anymore.
He was filled with joy because he had come to believe in God.
He and his whole household.
I wonder how many times
that man and his family retold that story.
How many times have others over the years since told that story for them?
How many times has it been told and how many times will it be told in heaven itself?
And is it not always told with joy?
Look at what God has done.
Jesus himself said the words that confirm the universality of that response.
He said in Luke chapter 15, seven, there is great joy in heaven over a single sinner who repents.
True Christians rejoice when people get saved.
True Christians rejoice deeply when individuals make steps of growth
and obey the Lord in some way, even if it causes them harm, they believe and they trust and they stay firm.
There's just great rejoicing in that.
We could tell stories right here today.
How many of you right in this room even today have brought me incredible joy, Linda and I, through the years, your faithfulness,
Your trust, your endurance at times of real difficult stuff.
You're continuing to move forward when right in front of you were only question marks.
What a delight, what a delight to see people like that, to know people like that.
Heaven itself rejoices.
And so as we conclude our examination of Acts chapter 16, let me just live you with this final thought.
the works of the world that hopefully we have tucked away in our mind what those are like, or we can review them when we come back here.
The works of the world and the responses of Christ's church have nothing in common.
And if it ever looks like they do, we have a problem.
We have a problem.
Let's bow in prayer, Heavenly Father,
How good to know that the works of God are so different from the works of the world.
The works of the world have been orchestrated and devised by the enemy of our faith himself, Satan himself.
And the responses that are regularly made among the body of believers are so different.
The responses that honor you,
Father, we've just looked at five of them this morning, but I pray that our response to you even this moment would be honoring to you.
And all our responses in the week ahead, may they be honoring to you.
May they fall into the pattern of those who hear your spirit's voice, who obey what he says, who
Open their arms to whatever the consequences are and trust you regardless of how things seem.
Oh, Father, bless this congregation, each one here today.
Those who are listening, watching, Father, all your people everywhere, bless them with the kind of heart and spirit that they just naturally, by your spirit, respond in Christ-honoring ways in every circumstance we're in.
Thank you for Paul and Silas.
Oh, what great examples they've been, what great courage they've shown, what great faithfulness they demonstrated.
We thank you for them and for preserving the accounts of their lives for us.
May we just be blessed greatly by it, for we ask it in Jesus' name.
We hope this message has inspired you to live the Sun Life together with us.
If you are near Apple Valley, California this weekend, we invite you to join us in person Sunday morning or through our live broadcast.
All the details are on our website at sunlifecommunitychurch.com.